This is NOT an add-on for Doomsday/Doom2, please make sure you have this installed on a different directory.

You do NOT need Kicks.exe to start the game, instead, simply double click Absolution.exe to begin playing.
Also, this mod requires a registered copy of Doom2 to function properly.

Please be sure you get the Music wad from Doom Depot (http://www.doom2.net/~elbryan/index.html#new)
To use the music wad, place it in /bin/data/doom64/auto/

for a walkthough of this TC, visit http://www.wvi.com/~jsgraham/doom64tc.htm
also be sure to give feedback to this guy for all the time he has spent on that site.

Doom64 TC's engine is based on the Doomsday source port for Doom2 by Jaakko Keränen.
Be sure to visit his site at http://www.doomsdayhq.com/.



					Introduction

	Doom64: The Absolution is a retelling of Doom by a new gaming crew. Doom64 combines
the frightning atmosphere from Quake and merges it with Doom2's hard action gameplay, making
it one of the most unique games I have ever seen. Oringinally created by MIDWAY for the Nintendo64
game console back 1997, Doom64 has blown Doom fans away with its new rendering system and
hi resolution sprites. Doom64 also offers new surprises like the Lasergun and Power Keys, and new
enemies like the Motherdemon and Nightmare Imp which kept Doom fans on their toes. Doom64 was
all about gameplay, the levels are designed with great perfection that will never get old when played
over and over. What really held my attention, was the glowing lightning system, I completly fell in love
with the look and how it was used to make such attractive scenes. Absolutly something that has 
never been duplicated before.

	This mod is a port over from the N64 to the PC platform which uses Doom2 has a base.
For a long time I've always wanted to see how Doom64 worked and what the developers used to make
everything in Doom64 a realility. This PC version of Doom64 is close to being identical to its N64 counterpart
and with many great improvments.

	For those who haven't played the game before, you might wonder what's so special about Doom 64. The game, first of all, had a whole new look, with larger sprites, pseudo 3D (using a glitch in the game's code, it's not true 3D like most people think), new textures, scrolling skies, and more. The game had custom scripting which is unbelievable what can be done with such an old game. The enviornments morphed, enemies faded in from thin air, waves of enemies come at you, and items spawn. The best mappers that could be found were hired by Midway for this incarnation of new levels. The levels are some of the best Doom levels ever.

	A new weapon has been added this time. The long-forgotten Unmaker from the original Doom Bible is finally presented, a laser weapon that's fully upgradable. Also, two new enemies were added. The Nightmare Imp is a faster, purple, translucent version of the original enemy. Also, a new final boss was added. The Mother Demon is a boss with many attacks, including guided missiles and spewing flames across the ground. Old enemies have been spiced up a bit. Arachnotrons now fire 2 plasma shots, Pain Elementals now shoot 2 Lost Souls at once, and the Lost Souls themselves are much more aggressive.

	The game had sounds from the PSX version of Doom, which are crisper, and with much more bass (pump up the volume!). The music is ambient by the genius behind PSX Doom's ambient music, Aubrey Hodges. Playing this game in the dark with the music blaring will freak you out for sure.

	Doom 64, however, wasn't well recieved by the Doom community for many reasons. First of all, the style is different. Lovers of the original style might not like the darker feel, the new enemy models, and such. Obviously mouse control is gone. Multiplayer was ditched at the last moment. But the big loss is the things that got dropped due to the cartridge size being so low compared to a CD. Enemies were missing, including the Commando, Arch-Vile, Revenant, and Spider Mastermind. There's a mere 32 levels, a decent amount, though nothing compared to the 56 levels of the PSX verison. The final nail in the coffin was the controller isn't that well used. The digital control, which most are used to playing console Dooms with, turns way too slow, forcing you to get accustomed to the analog stick to play the game at it's full potential.

	Still, even with the low points, I can't recommend Doom 64 more. I say you try it for yourself and see what you think. I personally love the style, and can live with the changes. This game is not used for
profit, and I do not plan to claim that I made this game either. This game was made/converted for
educational purposes, and because I wanted to accomplish something that I've always wanted to do ever
since I saw this game back in 97. I hope you will enjoy Doom64. Many thanks to ID Software, and Midway
for making this happen.

	-kaiser (kaiser@newdoom.com)

