jDoom 1.12 Beta(1)
------------------
by Jaakko Keränen <jk@jaakkok.pp.fi>
http://jdoom.newdoom.com/
01/27/2002


BETA RELEASE
This is a non-optimized debug build. The purpose of this release is
to find out how well the new network code is working. Expect to 
encounter bugs if not outright crashes.

The distribution includes no 3D models. You can safely use the existing
model packs, though.

Since this is a beta version, I'd appreciate hearing how it works for 
you (otherwise this would be a pretty pointless release, don't you 
agree?). If you encounter any bugs, please send me an email with the 
contents of Doomsday.out included. (NOTE: When an error message is 
shown and the game exits to Windows, Notepad opens up automatically 
showing Doomsday.out. However, that does NOT happen if the game 
actually *crashes*.)

To play, run Kicks.exe.

(If you get error messages about missing DLLs or OCXs, please download
the file vbsupp.exe from http://jdoom.newdoom.com/. Doomsday KickStart 
is a Visual Basic application and thus requires a couple of support 
libraries.)


CHANGES VS. VERSION 1.11
There are two key differences in the network code when compared to 
version 1.11:

- The server only sends the relevant information about the world to 
  each client. The idea is that the client will only be sent the 
  data it really needs, and nothing more. This has been accomplished
  by various delta mechanisms that compare the changes between the
  current state of the world versus the previous frame's situation.
  The changes get transmitted. In an ideal situation the flow of data
  from the server to the clients is reduced.
  
- Clients are free to move around on their own. They will periodically
  inform the server of their location. Normally the server will 
  succumb to the client's opinion, but if there is a too big 
  difference (the limit can be controlled with the console variable 
  net_MaxDif) the server will force the client to the 'correct' 
  coordinates. This should make the game playable for clients who are 
  suffering from a lagged connection.
  
In addition to that many small things have been changed in the engine,
starting from version numbering (Doomsday 1.05 Jan 17 2002 was 
replaced with 1.5.0, making the current version 1.5.1).
